---
layout: post
title: How affordable is a Tesla?
subtitle: Discover the best deal
---

### Introduction

You see more electric vehicles on the road everyday. They make you wonder, can I afford one? To answer this question, I analyzed the market of Teslas to discover which had the best value. I sampled three different models with varying options. In 2012, Tesla offered a four door sedan called the Model S. Next, a SUV named the Model X that seats 7 became available in 2016. Most recent in 2018, the compact Model 3 was released to the public.
<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~egrinalds/32.embed"></iframe>

#### Web Scraping
There weren’t any easily accessible datasets for my topic so I had to get creative. To create custom data, I used a Python’s [Beautiful Soup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng2o98k983k&t=2467s) web scraping tutorial. Parsing the data from [cars.com](https://www.cars.com/for-sale/searchresults.action/?mdId=21655&mkId=28263&page=1&perPage=100&searchSource=PAGINATION&sort=relevance&stkTypId=28881&zc=99019) was easy because of their user-friendly API.

#### Linear Regression
I knew this was a supervised learning regression model because the target (price) was numerical. With a few key features, I was confident that some machine learning techniques could accurately predict the price.To get started, I established a baseline by taking the mean of the data. This initial value is a rough estimate of what any given Tesla is worth. 

#### Machine Learning

Next, I used a series of five machine learning techniques to more accurately predict the price with a smaller mean absolute error (MAE).

Linear Regression: $5596. 

Ridge Regression: $5267.

XG Boost $4672.

Gradient Boost $4498.

Random Forest $4185.

#### Permutation Importancess

I was curious which features influenced the price the most so I used a technique called Permutation Importances. Mileage was the most important factor in determining the price. 

#### Partial Dependence Plot

The Partial Dependence Plots shows exactly what mileage does to the price. 

### Where can I earn the most money?

<iframe width="700" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~egrinalds/1.embed"></iframe>
