---
layout: post
title: Should you move to San Francisco?
subtitle: Find out if it's worth it

---
## Introductions

My experience in data science so far has been challenging but rewarding. This post is to demonstrate what I learned in only four weeks. I have applied my new skills to help make financial decisions easier during the job search. First, we will discover the starting pay in ten different areas across the country. Next, the cost of living be analyzed. Then, we will determine which city will allow you to save up for a house down payment the fastest. Last, we will plan for a monthly budget to gain insight on life in the real world. 

### Where can you earn the most money?

<iframe width="700" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~egrinalds/1.embed"></iframe>

The data indicated that San Francisco is the best choice to brag to your friends about your new [$109,420](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/san-francisco-junior-data-scientist-salary-SRCH_IL.0,13_IM759_KO14,35.htm) salary as a Junior Data Scientist. However, in California this gross income is taxed at [29.98%](https://smartasset.com/taxes/income-taxes#hj1AMoS3uX/) leaving you with a net income of $76,616. Comparatively, Seattle’s gross income is $96,739 and taxed at 22.6%. This results in a $74,876 net income and is only $1,740 less even though you were earning $12,681 more in San Francisco. The difference in net income is because there is no state income tax in Washington.

### Where is the cheapest place to buy a home?

<iframe width="700" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~egrinalds/3.embed"></iframe>

Austin's average 3Bd/2Ba home is [$347,906](https://www.nerdwallet.com/cost-of-living-calculator/compare/austin-tx-vs-san-francisco-ca)  To make a standard 20% down payment, you would need to save $69,581.

### Does it make financial sense to move to San Francisco?

<iframe width="700" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~egrinalds/5.embed"></iframe>

The answer is no, wages are not adjusted nearly enough. In a third of the time, you can save for a house in Austin (5.49 years) vs. San Francisco (16.49 years). Based off your purchasing power in Austin, the equivalent gross income would need to be $294,824 for San Francisco. These numbers may be alarming, but keep in mind there are other variables to consider that could equalize the time saving period. Your earning capacity will increase as you gain career experience. You could also get married and have two incomes to contribute.

## Conclusions

The data is clear that the frugal location to start your career is Austin, Texas. This budget analysis is what can be expected when starting a new career. In Austin, the average 2 bed-2 bath rental apartment is $1,520. This can be shared with a roommate has a split of $760. Based on the gross annual income of $81,160, the 17% Incoming Sharing Agreement "ISA" payment totals $1,150 per month. Saving 20% of annual net income will take you 5.49 years to save a 20% down payment because the average home is $347,906. 

<iframe width="700" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plotly.com/~egrinalds/7.embed"></iframe>
